CDP Release 7.1 2016
TIME-STRETCH' NATURAL ITERATIVE SOUNDS LIKE THE ROLLED 'rrr' IN SPEECH.
IN MODE 1 you mark where iterative part of sound is.
USAGE: 
grain r_extend 1 inf outf stt end te pr rep get asc psc rit reg [-s] [-e]
     STT      Time of start of iterated material within source.
     END      Time of end of iterated material within source.

IN MODE 2 process attempts to find it, using envelope tracing.
USAGE: 
grain r_extend 2 inf outf gate usz te pr rep get asc psc skp rit reg [-s] [-e]
     GATE     min level in src for env tracing to kick in (0-1).
     USZ      size of unit searched for, in ms (15 for rolled rr).
     SKP      number of found units to skip before processing.

TE       How much to time-extend the marked (or found) material.
PR       Guesstimate pitch-range of iteration in src - in octaves (try 1).
REP      Iterated material extended by reusing individual segments
         'repets' is no. of adjacent copies of any seg you allow (try 1-2)
GET      Guesstimate no. of iterations expected: listen to snd (range 2-1000).
         In MODE 2, MINIMUM no of repeats you expect to find.
ASC      Ouput segs made to vary randomly in amplitude. (Range 0-1)
         Value multiplies orig seg amp by rand val in range 1 to (1-N).
PSC      Output segs made to vary randomly in pitch (Range 0-24)
         Val transposes pitch by randval in range -N to +N semitones.
RIT      Slowing factor (grain-turnover rate slowed by inserting silence).
         1.0 = no slowing. Otherwise vals MUST BE IN A BRKPOINT FILE.
         Brkpoint times refer to time RELATIVE TO START OF ITERATED SEG.
         When used, number of interations will be extended (or curtailed)
         to allow the rit(s) to play out.
REG      Force grain rate to regular. (Only where grains slowed by "rit").
         1 = completely regular. But only happens once intest grain
         shorter than average separation caused by "rit".
-s       Don't keep start of sound before the iterative-extension.
-e       Don't keep end of sound after the iterative-extension.
IN MODE 3 Sound is edited into its start, each iterate unit, and its end.
using params  STT  END  and PR


