USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 1 inf outf panfile outchans [-ffocus]
USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 2 inf outf switchdata outchans [-ffocus -mminsil]
USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 3 inf outf outchans centre spread depth rolloff minsil [-s]
USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 4 inf outf outchans centre spread depth rolloff
USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 5 inf outf antiphon outchans minsil
USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 6 inf1 [inf2 ..] outf antiphon outchans eventdur gap splice
USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 7 inf outf pandata rolloff
USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 9 inf outf outchans startchan speed focus [-a]
USAGE: mchanpan mchanpan 10 inf outf outchans [-ffocus -mminsil -ggrouping] [-a] [-r]

Mode 1: Move a mono sound file around a multichannel space.
Mode 2: Switch (silence-separated) mono events in file from one chan to another.
Mode 3: Spread (s-s) mono events stepwise from one set of chans, to another set.
Mode 4: Spread source gradually from a centre, across several channels.
Mode 5: Switch events antiphonally between 2 specified sets of channels.
Mode 6: Switch sounds antiphonally between 2 specified sets of channels.
                  Mode 6 can take 1 or more inputfiles.
Mode 7: Pan from one channel configuration to another, passing through centre.
Mode 9: Rotate a mono sound file around a multichannel space.
Mode 10: Switch (silence-separated) mono events randomly from one chan to another.

PANFILE  Output pan-data in triples: time  pan-position  pantype
         Pan-position vals lie between (channel) 1 and a max no-of-channels >= 3.
         positions between 0 and 1 are also possible (see below).

         Pantype values can be
         0  = direct pan: pan from 1 to 4 goes directly between lspkrs 1->4
         1  = clockwise rotation: pan 1 to 4 goes around lspkrs 1->2->3->4
         -1 = anticlock rotation: pan 1 to 4 (with 8 chans) goes 1->8->7->6->5->4

         Direct pans must start at single lspkr:
         and position vals must be non-zero integers.

         Rotations can start/stop anywhere, so position values can be fractional.
         Vals between 0 & 1 are positions between max lspkr (e.g. 8) and lspkr 1

SWITCHDATA list of outchans, in a textfile. Sound switches from one outchan to next.
         If end of list reached, it starts again from its beginning.

PANDATA  Output pan-data in lines, each having: time  pan-positions
         Pan-positions is a list of ALL the input channels, in any order.
         Each input channel in turn is mapped to each numbered channel in the list.
         Passing from one mapping to next, sound in all chans spreads out until it's
         output equally from all chans, then contracts to its next outchan position.
         To force this maximal spread elsewehere,
         enter time & list of zeros (1 for each chan).

ANTIPHON two strings of letters, with separator ('-') represents antiphonal chans.
         e.g. abcd-efgh = antiphon between chans 1,2,3,4 and chans 5,6,7,8.

OUTCHANS number of channels in the output file.

STARTCHAN mode 8: Channel from which rotation begins.

SPEED    mode 8: Speed of rotation (cycles per sec): can vary through time.

FOCUS    If focus = 1.0, position (e.g.) '2' puts all signal in lspkr 2
         If focus = 0.9, position '2' puts 0.9 of signal in lspkr 2
         and the remainder in the 2 adjacent lspkrs (1 and 3).

MINSIL   min duration (mS) of zero-value samps to count as silence between peaks.
CENTRE   centre of spreading. Time-variable.
SPREAD   Chan-spread of output (far left to far right of centre). Time-variable.
         Minimum is 1 in Mode 3 and 0 in Mode 4.
DEPTH    max no of chans (to left, and to right) utilised, behind leading edges.
         Signal always reaches maximum spread, but may have hole in middle. 
ROLLOFF  level fall as signal spread over several chans. Range 0-1.
         0 = no fall in level, 1 = level divided by number of chans in use.
EVENTDUR Time before switching to next outchannel set(can timevary).
GAP      Time gap between switching events (can timevary).
SPLICE   Duration (in mS) of splices cutting events.
GROUPING (Max) number of events at outchan, before switch to next outchan.
-s       Output steps wider by 1 channel (to both L & R) on every event,
         as far as the spread value given (must be integer).
         Depth value must also be integer.
-a       Mode 8: ANTICLOCKWISE rotation (default clockwise).
         Mode 10: no steps allowed between ADJACENT output channels.
-r       Mode 10: Randomise number of grouped events at each outchan.
