USAGE:
multisynth synth outfile score MM [-jjitter] [-oochans] [-b]

Synthesize several sound-streams from a score.

SCORE  Text file with each line in the form:.
       "Insname" followed by any number of sets-of-4-values representing
       "Time"  "Pitch"  "Loudness"  and  "Duration".
       e.g.  (with two 4-sets) "trumpet 0 62 .7 2 8 64 .9 12"

Insname    name of instrument: one of the following.
           "flute"   "clarinet"  "trumpet"  "violin"  "cello"
           "pianoRH" "pianoLH" (LH must immediately follow RH in score file).

Time       Note onset time, measured in thirds-of-semiquavers from time 0 (integer).
           "Cello" & "violin" & and "piano" (LH and RH)
           may play up to 4 different notes simultaneously,
           so long as the note-combinations are possible on the real instrument.

Pitch      Pitch of the note, as a MIDI value (integer).
Loudness   A positive number no bigger than 1.
Duration   Duration of the note, measured in thirds-of-semiquavers (integer).
           "Piano" notes may overlay one another (sustained resonance)
           but other instruments may not, so their duration values must not
           create a note sustained beyond the start of the following note.
           Simultaneously sounding notes must have the same duration.

MM     Metronome mark determining tempo of sound output.
JITTER Max random divergence from regular note placement in mS (default 15).
OCHANS Number of output channels (2-8): default stereo.
       The sounds in successive lines will be spaced in the output-space
       from line-1, at the far left, to the last-line, at far right.
       (single-line score output will be placed at front centre).

-b     If "ochans" is greater than stereo, lspkr array assumed to be surround.
       To force a bounded array (with a left extreme and right extreme)
       use the "-b" flag.
       For surround, outputs numbered in order clockwise from front-centre.
       For bounded, outputs numbered in order from far-left to far-right.

