USAGE: strands strands 1 generic_outdatafilename ...
OR:    strands strands 2 outsndfilename ...
dur bands threads tstep bot top twist rand scat vamp vmin vmax turb seed
[-ggap] [-mminband] [-f3d] [-s]

OR:    strands strands 3 generic_outdatafilename ...
thrdsfile dur bands tstep bot top twist rand scat vamp vmin vmax turb seed
[-ggap] [-mminband] [-f3d] [-s]

Generate pitch-data for several streams (or the combined sound itself)
where total pitch-tessitura divided into equal-sized pitch-BANDS
and each band made of pitch-line THREADS, cycling around one-another
pitchwise, within the band, IF twist strays from zero.
Strands in adjacent bands spiral in opposite directions.

DUR       Duration of output data or sound.
BANDS     Number of bands in the output.
THREADS   Number of sounds in a band.
THRDSFILE Textfile listing number of sounds in EACH band.
TSTEP     Timestep (in mS) between pitch-data vals in output.
BOT       Lowest pitch of all output.
TOP       Highest pitch of all output.
TWIST     Rate of cycling of output pitches in bands (Hz).
RAND      Random variation of twist frq from band to band.
SCAT      Random-warp of cycles of threads in same band.
VORTEX WAVINESS
VAMP      ammount band-boundaries wander from fixed frqs.
VMIN      min rate of oscillation of band boundaries.
VMAX      max rate of oscillation of band boundaries.
TURBULENCE
TURB      0  none: >0-to-1 turbulence in bands: >1-to-2 gobal turbulence.
SEED      Seed value for randomisation settings.
GAP       Minimum pitch-gap between bands.
MINBAND   Minimum pitchwidth of any band.
3D        Motion in 3D:  0 = none: 1 = bottom band up at front: -1 = down.

-s        (Mode 2 only) - outputs each band in succesion.

Press any key to see further information.

TWIST &   With twist ZERO, streams do not cycle round one another
LAMINAR   but stay at steady(ish) pitches .. ("laminar flow").
FLOW      To force laminar flow, use 2 adjacent brkpnt vals of zero
          (laminar flow is forced between the associated times).
          To move to twisted flow, follow a zero val by a non-zero val.
          To maintain twisted flow, follow non-zero val by non-zero val.
          To untwist the flow, follow a non-zero val by a zero val.
          
          During laminar flow,
          "RAND" controls pitch-jitter of laminae.
          "SCAT" controls level-jitter of laminae.
          
3D        Outputs 2 extra param sets for each stream.
          1st set can control loudness, or synth partial-cnt
          in creation of a synthesized output.
          2nd set can control a mix with reverb (etc) version,
          (parameter is level of modified source in that mix)
          both to simulate distance from the listener.
          In modes 1 & 3, this extra data is output in separate files
          AFTER all the pitchdata files have been output.
          The output order is ...
          all pitch data, all 1st controlfiles, all 2nd controlfiles.

TURBULENT This can only happen (turb > 0.0) when twist > 0.0
FLOW      (i.e. there can be no turbulence during laminar flow
          or in the transitions to and from twisted flow).

MODE 2 SOUND OUTPUT
          Intended only as sound-test for the data output in mode 1.
          Bands are output, equally spaced, across the stereo stage.

