Readtxws.txt
Original file: 28 June 2002

			Readme for CDP Texture Workshop

Revised 14 November 2005 to separate out:
	Run on PC 				Run on Mac
	Explore on PC			Explore on Mac

New Directory Structure on the CD-ROM
\Txws-PC			main folder with the Workshop to RUN on PC
				  click on TXWS-PC.htm
	\Bat-TxWkshop-PC  backup copies of original batch files 
	\SLpatches		patches to be loaded into _cdpatch
	\ExploreTx-PC	zip .exe to extract to C:\txws, 
				  containing the exploratory materials
  *.brk			breakpoint files used by the Workshop
  *.htm			HTML files used by the Workshop
  *.txt			textfiles used by the Workshop (mostly NDF)
  *.wav			soundfiles used by the workshop

\Txws-Mac			main folder with the Workshop to RUN on MAC
				  click on TXWS-MAC.htm
	/Bat-TxWkshop-MAC	backup copies of original batch files
	/SLpatches		patches to be loaded into _cdpatch
	/ExploreTx-MAC	.tar.gz to place in any directory, 
				  containing the exploratory materials
  *.brk			breakpoint files used by the Workshop
  *.htm			HTML files used by the Workshop
  *.txt			text files used by the Workshop (mostly NDF)
  *.aiff			soundfiles used by the workshop

The Texture Workshop materials have been devised and prepared by 
CDP Coordinator, Archer Endrich.

The CDP TEXTURE Program Set has been written by composer-programmer, 
Trevor Wishart.  You can see his website at:

http://www.trevorwishart.co.uk


RUNNING THE WORKSHOP TO STUDY THE MATERIALS AND LISTENING TO THE 
SOUNDFILE EXAMPLES PROVIDED  (PC or MAC)

You can Run the Workshop HTML and Play the example soundfiles directly 
from the CD-ROM.
	On PC, open the folder Txws-PC and double-click on TXWS-PC.htm.
	On Mac, open the folder Txws-MAC and double-click on TXWS-MAC.htm.

Alternatively you can copy the files in the Txws-PC or Txws-MAC folders 
(as appropriate) to your hard disk and run the Workshop from there, as 
above.  Just to run the Workshop as it stands, you can copy files 
to any directory on any drive.   You can place the folder on any drive.

Note that the files will probably be Read-only after this operation, 
but that is fine when just accessing the HTML files and playing the 
soundfiles.


EXPLORING THE WORKSHOP:  CREATING YOUR OWN VARIANTS OF THE EXAMPLES

EXPLORING ON PC

To avoid Read-only problems, the files you need for this are stored in 
txwsexplorePC.zip.  You will find this file in the folder ExploreTx-PC.  
On PC, it is essential to extract it to C:\txws so that the paths in 
the Soundshaper Presets will work.  When you extract, accept C:\txws as 
the destination;  it will be created in the extraction process.  In general, 
it is recommended to keep this exploratory work separate from Txws-PC.

You will now find that C:\txws contains:
  3 source .wav files (as used in the Workshop) -- you can use your own, 
	of course (editing the batch files accordingly if you use them.)
  Several .bat files - these currently create the soundfile examples 
	as in the Workshop.  You can edit the batch files to ring changes 
	on the results.  The batch files are run from the Command Line.
  Txws.dat - the Preset files for Soundshaper.  In the FILE menu of 
	Soundshaper, click on Load Global Presets.  Txws.dat should be 
	the only .dat listed, as it is picking it up from the current 
	directory (C:\Txws).  NB - First create a 'Personal' configuration 
	file (OPTIONS/SETTINGS etc.) to set SOUNDFILES OUT and USER FILES 
	to C:\txws.  Open this settings file (OPTIONS/SETTINGS - File menu 
	in top left corner) each time you want to explore the Texture 
	examples.  There is a longer discussion of this procedure below.
  All .brk and .txt (NDF) files used in the examples -- also can be edited.

To Explore using Sound Loom, load the contents of \SLpatches into 
_cdpatch (the Sound Loom system directory containing patches).  Then 
the Workshop presets (called 'patches' in Sound Loom) will be available.  
It won't matter what your current directory is when you go to load them.

If by any chance you are 'denied access' to a file, it may have its Read-Only 
PROPERTY ticked.  Go to PROPERTIES with the right mouse button and deselect 
Read-Only (unticked).  Ideally, this should not be necessary with distribution 
via self-extracting zip file.


EXPLORING ON APPLE MAC

To avoid Read-only problems, the files you need for this are stored in 
txwsexploreMAC.tar.gz.  On the Mac, you can copy to any directory.


On the Apple Mac, extract the files in txwsexploreMAC.tar.gz to any 
directory.  Also copy the contents of the folder SLpatches to _cdpatch 
(the Sound Loom system directory containing patches).

If by any chance you are 'denied access' to a file, it may have its Read-Only 
PROPERTY in place.  Change the file setting to 'rw'.


MORE DETAILED DISCUSSION OF THE  INFORMATION 

TXWS-PC or TXWS-MAC.HTM IS THE MAIN DOCUMENT.  Double-click on it to access 
the background information, text for the worked examples, and the 
various soundfile play lists.

SOUNDSHAPER
Txws.dat is the Presets data file for use with SoundShaper.  
The best way to handle this is to leave txws.dat inside \txws and 
LOAD it from there.

  I find it useful to create a 'Personal' configuration file for 
  each project.  To do this, you go to OPTIONS-SETTINGS, alter the 
  paths for Soundfiles AND User files to access c:\Txws.

  If there is a problem in running the presets, check that the path 
  in the parameter dialogue window to the note data and breakpoint 
  files says what it should.  All these files are in c:\Txws but it is 
  possible that the earlier part of the path may not be appropriately 
  altered (from my computer setup to yours).  It should be OK if the 
  Workshop is successfully located in C:\Txws\.

NB: you need to take note of which program is being used, e.g., 
(Texture) SIMPLE, as you can access the presets only after entering 
that specific program.  Also double-check that the correct Mode is selected 
after you load the Preset.  It isn't always set by the Preset.

SOUND LOOM
The same examples have been realised as Patches for Sound Loom.  These files 
are in the SLpatches folder.  In order to use them in Sound Loom, you need 
to copy them to _cdpatch in your Sound Loom directory.  Then select the 
directory where you've placed the ExploreTx files (possibly C:\txws) as the working directory, LIST its contents and GRAB all the .brk and .txt files 
to the Workspace, along with the input soundfiles marimba.wav/.aiff and gtrcdt.wav/.aiff (or your own source soundfile).

Also, in Sound Loom take note of the Mode used by the example.  When you 
select a PROCESS, you will need to select its mode as well before going to 
the Parameter dialogue box.  The patches should be listed, ready for LOADing 
and use.  These patches will be there and will load even if you are in the 
wrong mode for the example, so double-check that the mode is correct before 
running the example (with e.g., the alterations suggested in the Practical 
Work section).

To alter the examples, you need TEXTURE.EXE from the CDP Music System 
installed on your computer.  Then you can use SoundShaper Presets, the 
Sound Loom Patches or, in DOS, the supplied .bat files.  This will be 
in place in your bin or _cdprogs folder along with the other CDP 
executables.  This is why it is not supplied with the Texture Workshop.  
Another reason is that the key to making the most of the Texture Set is 
tailoring the input sound to create a specific result when assembled 
into a texture.  The CDP Sound Transformation programs are therefore 
needed to bring the Texture software to life when creating sonic 
textures.

There may be occasions when the Texture Workshop can be explored on-site, 
so that the information can be tailored to the requirements of participants, 
particularly in setting up the environment, connecting with their overall 
musical outlook, and in focusing on the specific pieces of information 
needed to work with TEXTURE successfully.  The whole point would be to guide 
participants through the enormous amount of detailed information involved 
with the TEXTURE Set.

Please contact Archer Endrich about making a booking for a Workshop.  My 
time is limited and distance is an issue, but some bookings may be possible.

Have fun!


Archer

Archer Endrich
12 Goodwood Way
Cepen Park South
Chippenham, Wiltshire
SN14 0SY
archer@trans4um.demon.co.uk
